---
title: "Basic Computer Vision Workshop using Raspberry Pi"
collection: talks
type: "Workshop"
permalink: /talks/2020-02-08-workshop-1
venue: "Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University, Cretus"
date: 2020-02-08
location: "Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India"
---

As an active alumnus of the robotics club, Cretus, I, along with the present student members of Cretus, planned a 3 parter 48 hour course for the present student to give them a good head start 
so they can create thei own projects and participate in robotics competetions and also get involved in research.

This was the first part of the three parter course. It gave a good introduction to python, raspberry pi and basics of OpenCV. This wokshop was specifically designed 
for the freshers to give them an early exposure to important fundamental concepts and powerful prototyping tools.

Topics covered in the workshop were same as the basic cpmputer vision workshop but were more oriented towards application point of view.

Topics covered in the workshop
==============================

* Basics of python
  * Printing 
  * Variables
  * Taking user inputs
  * Lists
  * Dictionaries
  * Loops
  * Creating user defined functions
* Basics of linux terminal commands
* Raspberry Pi basics
  * GPIO operations of raspberry pi with python
  * Controling GPIO pins 
  * Taking inputs from GPIO pins
  * Debouncing of a switch
  * PWM signals on RPi GPIO
  * Controling servo
* Fundamentals of image formation
* OpenCV basic image reading, writing
* Types of color spaces
* Accessing and indexing pixel values of an image
* Color detection
* Canny edge detection (basic theory and code)
* Haar cascade theory
* Face detection using haar cascade.

Based on the building blocks explained in the workshop the participants were able to build several interesting projects with little or no guidance. Some of the projects are :

* Sketch effect using canny edge detection.
* Specific LED lights up when corresponding color is shown to the web cam.
* Invisibility cloak.
* Face tracking webcam
